In this white paper, the Government presents a more effective and coherent policy to address global security challenges in Norway’s foreign policy. 

The global security landscape has changed fundamentally in the past few years. Security challenges are more complex than in the past. The effects of non-traditional security challenges such as terrorism, organised crime, piracy and cyber threats on global stability, security and development are becoming increasingly clear.


Norway has a well-functioning and efficient public sector. There are nevertheless major challenges. We must deliver even better services to citizens, businesses and voluntary organisations. To accomplish this, we must use new technology, be innovative and be able to change.

These challenges cannot be resolved in individual agencies or sectors. We need to collaborate across agencies and sectors to create seamless services that meet the needs of the users, regardless of who provides the service.



There are many good examples of AI in use in Norway, and in the coming years we will likely see many more, especially in business and industry and the public sector. While the United States and China have come far with consumer-oriented applications, our strength lies in the fact that our industry, business and public sector are more technologically advanced and digitalised than in most other countries. Norway is world-leading in the process industry, green shipping, aquaculture and petroleum activities. We have one of the most digitalised public sectors in the world. We must continue to build on these advantages in our development and use of artificial intelligence.


The purpose of the Report is to define and provide strategic direction for digitalisation in Norwegian development policy, and to show how existing and new initiatives can be applied in priority areas.  Digitalisation is an umbrella term that encompasses the introduction of digital tools and methods that streamline processes and change societies. Both nationally and internationally much is being done to harness digitalisation and new technology, but the efforts are often fragmented and uncoordinated. A more systematic and integrated approach is therefore needed to determine how digital transformation can be used to enhance the impact of Norwegian development policy. Digitalisation can increase the reach of existing development efforts and assist developing countries in capitalising on the potential of digital technologies. To build on lessons learned and encourage results beyond the scope of individual projects, Norway will take a systematic and integrated approach to use of technology in its development policy.


Kompetansebehovsutvalget har fått i mandat å vurdere Norges fremtidige kompetansebehov. Hvilke behov som er aktuelle, må vurderes opp mot målene for kompetansepolitikken. I den nasjonale kompetansepolitiske strategien, som myndighetene og partene i arbeidslivet har gått sammen om, heter det at kompetansepolitikken skal bidra til innovasjon, produktivitet og konkurransekraft i arbeidslivet, velferd og fordeling i samfunnet og utvikling og mestring for den enkelte.